We will start our program by visiting the South Africa branch.
The work there has increased tremendously in the past few years, and the branch is now
expanding to support the growth.
Globally, the good news is published in over 800 languages.
Almost 300 of those languages are spoken in Africa.
The South Africa branch supports printing, purchasing, building design, and audio video production
in the region.
The literature is printed and packed for over 15,000 congregations in 20 countries.
To keep up with this demand, printing and shipping teams run two shifts per day.
And in peak periods, the press works around the clock.
To help speed up work in the boundary and shipping departments, we have automated and mechanized
many work processes.
Arrangements are underway to install a second printing press, but with all this increase
storage spaces become very limited.
So the shipping department needs a larger warehouse.
The Regional Audio Video Center supports all languages in Africa with producing audio
and video items.
They are currently busy with an extensive training program.
And soon, recording facilities will be set up in over 100 different locations on this
continent.
The results are wonderful.
Five years ago, none of our videos were released in any of the languages of Africa.
Now, 300 languages have permission to produce audio and video publications.
Recently, a branch video team has been established to assist in providing video material for
JWL.org and for JW Broadcasting.
Due to this growing demand for audio and video publications, new facilities are needed.
In order to support these increases, the branch is busy with a large expansion project.
Doing so in an ecologically sensitive residential area and without interrupting publication
production is challenging.
The first part of the expansion project is a five-story building with 48 new residence
rooms.
Now, this building is scheduled to be completed by May of 2015.
The major part of the expansion project is the shipping warehouse.
Now, this is a massive building.
It's 210 meters long, 70 meters wide and 15 meters high.
And perhaps just to put that into perspective, you could park three Boeing 747s inside of
this building.
Ajoining the warehouse is an administration building that will house the regional audio
video centre.
Included will be state-of-the-art recording studios and editing facilities.
When designing these buildings, attention was given to making them environmentally friendly,
energy efficient and also pleasant for the brothers and sisters who will be working inside.
The concrete structure of the warehouse has been designed in such a way that in the future
additional suspended slabs for officers could be added if the use of the building ever
needs to change.
This is what we call future-proofing a building.
The branch road system is also being upgraded to allow all of the literature to be transported
safely and efficiently between the printries and the new warehouse building.
The windwater runoff from the roads, roofs and paving all of these new buildings and areas
is going to be directed into a large stormwater attenuation pond.
And from there the water will slowly be discharged into a local stream.
Solar roof panels are being installed in various places around the branch to harvest some
of the beautiful sunshine that we have and added as electricity into the Bethel power grid.
The last phase of the project will be to upgrade the printry in preparation for a second
man-rolling printing press.
A new visitors deck will be added and when you come on tour you will be able to have
a bird's eye view of all of the action down at the process.
The building project has been contracted to several construction companies to speed up
the schedule.
At the peak of construction 700 contract workers will be on site.
We also have a large group of brothers and sisters from 21 different countries to assist
with project management, quality control, mechanical and electrical installation and some
of the finishes and build the straights.
On weekends volunteers from local congregations come into a sense with site preparation
between the different phases.
The good news reached Africa more than 100 years ago since then it has grown in many receptive
parts.
Currently 3.5 million Bible studies have been conducted in Africa that is 30 percent
of the global figure.
This certainly shows that Jehovah is drawing people from every nation, tribe and tongue
to bring in praise.
Exciting developments indeed.
We are happy to see how the Kingdom Preaching work is speeding up all over the world.
And you may have noticed that we decided to use outside contractors to help with this
particular project.
Although we generally use our own construction workers, it can sometimes be beneficial to
use contractors on a case by case basis.
At times that can speed up a project and result in savings.